For HESUVI if you can't setup surround, then your sound card won't support it. Practically all music, online videos and even many games are only in stereo so you'll get full benefits of HeSuVi with these. There is even an option to upmix stereo to 7.1 surround in the Additional tab. If you want to have full 7.1 surround sound experience without having a sound card which supports it, go read the next section(s) below for different workarounds.
https://sourceforge.net/p/hesuvi/discussion/general/thread/ce7c354dd7/?page=1#60f7/d32b/8974
1. Install VB-Audio Matrix(https://vb-audio.com/Matrix/index.htm). In the Windows control panel Sound/Playback disable all VB-Audio devices, except VBMatrix In 2: it will be used as virtual 7.1-audio device (see pic01.jpg). Also set default playback format to 24 bit/48000 Hz for this device as HeSuVi required (pic02.jpg).
2. Use Equalizer APO tool or HeSuVi to set up Eq.APO to VBMatrix In 2 device. Use Troubleshooting options and set "Install as SFX/MFX". If you need upmixing to work then set Pre-mix: Install APO as well.
3. You do not need to reboot your PC, just use Restart Audio Service option in the HeSuVi Actions menu.
4. Now all you need is to route binaural audio produced by HeSuVi to your stereo audio device. Run VBAudioMatrix x64 (you can find it in the Windows Start menu in the VB Audio folder). If it starts and appears as tray icon then right-click on it and left-click on the "Show Matrix" (see VBAudioMatrixMain.jpg).
5. Point your mouse over VAIO2 Online button, right-click and set Online. You can also open VAIO Control Panel via the same menu and set latency as you need (VAIO_ControlPanel.jpg). I set latency at 3072 smp, didn't notice any issues.
6. Mouse over WIN2.OUT section and CTRL-left-click or just right-click and open Device Selector (Device_Selector.jpg). Here you can select your audio device for actual playback (SBX AE-5 in my case).
7. Now you just need to configure a channel matrix for the audio routing. Mouse over Matrix logo (top left, see MatrixLogo.png ) and left-click. This will open Matrix Routing Grid (Matrix_RoutingGrid.jpg). Set 0 dB for the left and right (1 and 2) channels for your audio device.
8. Close Routing Grid and now your setup is ready.
